Translation: chapter 5 (#82)
btcven/locha: documentation/en/chapter_5.md

# 5. Routing Protocols

There are many routing protocols used for information management but not all of them are relevant to the WNS, their use case is completely different. The loss of information in wired networks its due to the great amount of data traffic traveling through the network, whereas in WNS the medium is very hostile, the air, where devices and transmissions are exposed to enviroment changes like noise and other alterations that may take place, to say nothing of how devices must _fight_ to access the medium. Therefore the approach given to an ad-hoc network protocol is different to the one used in wired networks, on the latter the protocols are not design to work with that much stress.

## 5.2 Types of routing protocols  

> There are three types of routing protocols for wireless networks, these protocols have been developed due the need to control the routing on ad-hoc networks [3] keeping in mind the limitations of the devices:

Author: ```suggestion
There are three types of routing protocols for wireless networks, these protocols have been developed due the need to control the routing on ad-hoc networks [3] keeping in mind device limitations:
```

- Must not flood the network with control messages.
- Resilient, self healing.

In all routing protocols used for wireless networks and WNS it's important to set the routes. If a protocol chooses good routes, it will result in a minor latency between the source and the destiny, therefore it will perform less transmission messages consuming less energy from the device.

## 5.3 Locha Mesh routing protocol

<br>
<img src="imple_pic/protocolo_seleccion.svg"  height="650" width="450" align="left"/>

In this diagram we summarize the criteria for choosing a protocol suitable for Locha Mesh. We can enphasize the following:

- Free from ```loops```.
- The computing cost must be low, since its executed inside an embedded system with limited resources.
- The protocol must be reactive to avoid flooding the network with messages even when the routes are not being used, and save battery while the user its not requiring routes.

It is observed that the highest score in the chart belongs to the AODVv2 protocol and TORA. We have decided to work with the AODVv2, since it has available documentation updated online, although it's plausible a revision for TORA.

> Another point to take into account is the network topology that will be used for the deployment, according to the chart regarding the criteria on the client side and reducing the points of failure, the star topology is discarded and in its place the mesh topology will be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another point to take in mind is the network topology that will be used for the deployment, according to the chart regarding the criteria on the client side and reducing the points of failure, the star topology is discarded and in its place the mesh topology will be implemented.
```
